---
layout: post
title: CV
---

## Publications
- Jiménez, N.E., Gerdtzen, Z. P., Olivera-Nappa A., Salgado J.C., and Conca C. (2019) A systems biology approach for studying _Wolbachia_ metabolism reveals points of interaction with its host in the context of arboviral infection. PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases 13.8 e0007678. 
- Jiménez, N., V. S. Martínez, and Z. P. Gerdtzen. Engineering CHO cells galactose metabolism to reduce lactate synthesis. Biotechnology letters 41.6-7 (2019): 779-788.
- Hefzi, H., Ang, K. S., Hanscho, M., Bordbar, ..., Jiménez. N.E. ., ... & Martinez, V. S. (2016). A Consensus Genome-scale Reconstruction of Chinese Hamster Ovary Cell Metabolism. Cell Systems, 3(5), 434-443.
- Jiménez, N. E., Wilkens, C. A. and Gerdtzen, Z. P., 2011, Engineering CHO cell metabolism for growth in galactose, BMC Proceedings 2011, 5(Suppl 8):P119doi:10.1186/1753-6561-5-S8-P119.

## Presentations
- Jiménez, N.E., Gerdtzen, Z. P., Olivera-Nappa A., Salgado J.C., and Conca C. Genome-scale analysis of _Wolbachia_ metabolism. ISCB-LA SOIBIO EMBnet 2018, Viña del mar, (Chile), 5-9th November 2018.
- Jiménez, N.E., Gerdtzen, Z. P., Olivera-Nappa A., Salgado J.C., and Conca C. Genome-scale models for _Wolbachia_'s mutualism. 2nd MOSTICAW Meeting, Porquerolles (France) 10-15 October 2017.
- Jiménez, N.E., Gerdtzen, Z. P., Olivera-Nappa A., Salgado J.C., and Conca C. Genome-scale models for _Wolbachia_. MOSTICAW (MOdeling the Spread and (opTImal) Control of Arboviroses by _Wolbachia_) Meeting, Asunción (Paraguay) 5-7 October 2016.	
- Martinez V., Jiménez N.E., Gerdtzen Z.P., and Nielsen L.K.,  Dynamic Metabolic Flux Analysis using B-splines to study CHO cell metabolism. Mammalian Systems Biotechnology Workshop, Singapore, August 11-12 2016
- Jiménez N.E., Gerdtzen Z.P., Engineering CHO cells for improved productivity by overexpressing key enzymes of the galactose and fructose metabolism, Invited speaker, ECI Cell Culture Engineering XIII, California (USA) April 22-27, 2012

### Posters
-  Martinez, V.S, Jiménez N.E., Tiwari K., Gerdtzen Z.P., and Nielsen L.K., Unravelling the lactate metabolism of CHO cells engineered to grow in galactose. 25th ECI Cell Culture Engineering, Lausanne (Switzerland). May 14-17, 2017.
- Jiménez, N.E., Orellana, C.A, Martinez, V.S, Saa, P., Nielsen L.K. and Gerdtzen, Z. P, Integration of transcriptomic data with a genome-scale model reveals key metabolic features of high producer CHO cell lines, Cell Culture Engineering XV ((16AC) CCE XV), California (USA), May 8-13, 2016.
- Jiménez, N.E., Loira, N., and Gerdtzen, Z. P  Generation and Use of a Genome-Scale Model to Describe Metabolic Shift in CHO Cells,  4th conference on Constrained-Based Reconstruction and Analysis (COBRA), Heidelberg (Germany), September 16-18, 2015.
-  Jiménez, N.E., and Gerdtzen, Z. P . Engineering CHO cell metabolism for culture in galactose. Biochemical and Molecular Engineering XIX, Puerto Vallarta (Mexico), July 12-16, 2015 
- Jiménez, N.E., Loira, N., and Gerdtzen, Z. P  Generation and use of a CHO genome-scale model to describe metabolic shift. Biochemical and Molecular Engineering XIX, Puerto Vallarta (Mexico), July 12-16, 2015 
-  Jiménez, N.E., Loira, N., and Gerdtzen, Z. P  Generation and use of a preliminary genome-scale model for CHO cell metabolism, VI SLATCC , November 6-8, 2014 
-  Jiménez, N.E., Loira, N., and Gerdtzen, Z. P  Global study of metabolic shift using an extended genome scale model for mammalian cells, ECI Cell Culture Engineering XIV, May 4-9, 2014 
- Jiménez, N. E., Wilkens, C. A. and Gerdtzen, Z. P Engineering galactose metabolism for improved cell growth of CHO cells in culture, The American Institute of Chemical Engineers Meeting, AIChE 2011.
-  Jiménez, N. E., Wilkens, C. A.  and Gerdtzen, Z. P., Engineering CHO cell metabolism for growth in galactose, European Society for Animal Cell Culture 22nd Meeting, ESACT 2011, Vienna (Austria) May 15-18, 2011.
-  Wilkens, C. A., Jiménez, N. E. and Gerdtzen, Z. P., Increasing Productivity in CHO Cells Through Metabolic Engineering and Media Design, United Engineering Foundation Conference, Metabolic Engineering VIII, Jeju Island (South Korea) June 13-18, 2010.

## Teaching
- Biology Applications in Science and Engineering - Fall 2019
- Introduction to Astrobiology - Fall 2019

